
# Starting Off Right: Tips and Tricks for Your First Faculty Position
Thurdsay, Oct 12th, 8-9:30AM

Meeting people, natural collaborators, gearing personnel for the projects.

Programs for visiting scholars and transitioning them to PhD students. 

Finding that first group of PhD students is really important.

Larger grant applications want a lot of preliminary data. 

Early on, focus on startup and seed funding opportunities that may require less. 

### Branding yourself with  the start of your lab

Projects that you have expertise on, start with small experiments to establish training and techniques in the lab.

Lab logo, templates for posters, templates for presentations, mission and vision statements, maybe a website external to university if making changes is a nightmare.

Implementing seminars within the colleges -- 'research in progress', showing what you are capable of doing, opening up for collaboration

Have deadlines very clear, takes a lot of time to prepare applications

### Who to hire and when

Judging students - evaluating goals

technician vs postdoc vs phd for getting the lab setup, if you don't want to start off by training a lot in the lab. where is your comfort zone?

designate one person in the lab to be a 'mini-me' role so it is not all on your shoulders

Figuring out if they're passionate about the work you are doing, if they are not interested and they are not motivated, it becomes a lot harder, leads to unproductive students

What are you being evaluated for in your department? Training undergraduates, graduates.

Remind yourself that you are new to this job, students aren't going to work out, no sunk-cost fallacy.

Took on a PhD student and they aren't cutting it out? Your graduate advisor can recommend changing labs or dropping to a masters, just make sure you are documenting it. 

Weeder questions - prior research experience, skills, what your favorite/least favorite things about the projects are -- not judging, just want to let me know.

If you had your PhD today, what would you be doing? Where would you be working? getting a sense of passions.

For undergrads, figuring out their motivations, if they are wanting to do graduate school, if they're willing to put in summer time for research, what are they trying to get out of it?

### Spending

Equipment, consumables, student, etc. Spending a majority to equipment before starting, getting quotes, vendors, etc. Save a bit for the future, but the startup is there to get started with research program.

Spend money to make money, get what you need, get data, get grants.

Plan ahead for your students, salary, tuition, benefits, project to 4/5 years.

Have an excel file where you are budgeting your different grants, amount, cross-checking with administration with the department.

Spend a little time shopping around, getting a couple of different quotes, negotiate. Saving money on equipment and consumables. University may have a default supplier, but you can go out and find lower costs.

Don't be afraid to ask for discounts, sometimes if you can make a justification, some universities will match cost. Bundling discounts. 

### Cultivating research environment and relationships to cultivate success

Providing structure, what is your long-term vision as a faculty, bring students into that so they can share the vision. Being transparent with the lab. Share a rose and thorn at the beginning of lab meetings. 

What do you want your lab culture to look like? Put it on paper. Think of it as being your lab's CEO. Clear expectations, clear boundaries. Is the expectation for them to respond all the time? Living in a constant state of anxiety.

Take an interest in personal lives, lab lunches, bonding. Be careful with that, calling by first name, calling Dr. for a professional setting. 

How to suddenly become more formal, happy medium with being professional and approachable. 

The way you sign your email shows a lot, signing first name, signing initials, signing full name. 

Common sense is not a flower in everyone's garden. Encourage asking if there is hesitancy. 

### Money makers, grants and publications

Have to be thinking of grants from the get-go, will directly inform what you are doing. Showing that you can lead a group of students on peer-reviewed research. You may have a big research vision on where you are trying to go, creating a bridge. Publications are a way to report progress with what your lab is doing. Experiments that move the needle, put it out as preprint or publish. 

Learn your own program, figuring out what metrics there are for tenure-track. What boxes do I need to check?  How many students do you need to graduate? How many papers as a senior author? Before sending package. 

Running things in parallel, grants, papers, data. 

Resources for junior faculty at your university. Grant editors, scientific writers, rephrasing one-page response to reviewers for grants.

Apply to grants broadly, and see what gets bite, get constructive criticism, refine your ideas, grant strategy will narrow over time.

Spend specific aims to your program officer before you submit. It may save you a bunch of time.

Tenure criteria, sometimes it is not clear, a hidden curriculum.

'I'm not good at saying no' - What is a promotable task, what is a non-promotable task, and say no to non-promotable tasks.

### Service, Teaching first class

Try to get through that first class without burning down the course. Learning on the go.

Not recommended to design your own course for the first semester.

Do not reinvent the wheel, share resources.

Celebrating submissions.

Monthly/Bi-weekly massages. 2-3 days off after a big grant deadline.


# A Fantastic Voyage: My Journey in Nanoengineering, Advocacy, and Leadership
Dr. Desai, Brown University

Careers are more of a marathon than a sprint, joining together and collaborating instead of being alone.

### Mentorship Matters
Early encouragement to pursue STEM

Avenue for positive change, advocacy, using our knowledge to do things that impact ourselves and our community.

Finding mentors is critical, enabling undergraduate research.

### Turn Challenges into Opportunities
Taking the road less traveled, looking at where you can make your mark. Early exposure to new opportunities.

The Desai Lab: Advanced biomaterials for therapeutic applications

# Resilience and Mental Health in Biomedical Engineering Faculty, Post Docs, and Students
Thursday, Oct 12th, 12:30-1:30PM
University of Virginia

Resilience, ability to adapt and grow through adversity, navigate difficult challenges, and find a constructive way through challenging times.

Being able to hold two conflicting ideas without having them wreck you
'Worked really hard on my grant, put my best ideas into it'
'Reviewers didn't like my idea and trashed my grant'

What is burnout?

Work nonstop -> panic about work that is left -> try to take a break -> panic about the work you have left -> repeat

If we are doing work that we don't think is worthwhile, then you can get resentment that you are doing it, rather be doing something else.

External factors: boss demands, workplace culture, vague performance benchmarks, administrative bullshit

Internal factors: Own expectations, work habits, feelings

Mindfulness: Mattering, Purpose, Gratitude, 14min/day beneficial, 13% more productive when happy, 20% of day doing something we're passionate about, other tasks don't seem as burdensome

Becoming a resilient scientist (BRS) NIH OITE

Higher studies, 6x more prominent with Depression and Anxiety

All-or-nothing thinking, Catastrophes, Mind reading/fortune telling, emotional reasoning, over-generalization, personalization, discounting the positive or minimizing etc. Pressures of grad-school

Effective conclusion for grad-school.

Happy AND productive experience

Resilience = People + Process + Preparation

Assertive communication is not aggressive communication, allowing room for communication, open to feedback and clarification

Importance of training, getting an outside perspective.

Importance of being creative, self-advocacy

Do I feel important -> Do others make me feel important

Creative ways to open pathways for yourself -- More money, faculty interview process integration, symposiums.

Somewhat of a social delay in graduate school. This being part of the game.

Easy to compare yourself to your peers. Can be a tremendous stressor, talking through it and finding a goal to run through that is worth that social delay. 

Bidirectional, knowing when to send something out perfectionism

Thomas Jefferson quote? Perfect is the enemy of good. Trying to make something perfect prevents it to be good. 

Sharing work with colleagues that you trust. Giving independent advice, advocating for the students. 

Best you can do is represent the data. There is a safety in presenting what you are doing. We talk about statistical significance, it is not perfect. Willing to go and give 'good enough', because that's all you can do as scientists. 

Excellence vs perfectionism. Failure is a place of growth. Having those conversations with other people. CVs of failure. Normalizing the feel.

Constantly raising the bar, oh now I have to publish 5 papers, 10 papers, etc. 

Perception of what peers are doing, being more honest with who we are and what we accomplish is part of the solution, but having people openly talk about failures is really important.

Much more disconnected with departments post-COVID. Need to  create networks, confidants and friendships.

Milestones with grad-school are there, but with post docs, there are no milestones. Hard to see progress and have activities that aren't just a tack-on. 

'We don't even have a list of all of our post docs' -- Enable their success and get subsidized gym memberships. Advocate for lactation room, symposium, grants, etc. When any new post-doc is hired, sending an email that they are hired. Onboarding manual for post docs. 